title: Basics
author: tiglari

There are actually two 'basic' duplicators, on
the 'duplicators & misc' item in the New Polyhedrons
panel button menu or the New Map Items toolbox.
Thy're both named
`Duplicator'.  Basically what they do is make copies
of the stuff that is inside the (smallest) group
they're in.

So to see this effect, first create a new poly, then
make a group over it (by hitting the `new group'
panel button). Now, with either the group or the
cube selected, insert the top Duplicator.  What
you'll now see, in an XY view, is 5 blue outlines
of the original New Cube heading off at a 45 degree
angle.  These are the copies of the original brush.

To control what's happening, look in the tree-view,
select the duplicator, and look at its specifics.
The first interesting one is 'offset', which will
be the triple of numbers '32 32 0'.  This is the
amount, in the X, Y and Z dimensions, whereby each
copy is displaced from the previous one.  So we
can make the copies head out in the X direction,
spaced at a greater distance, by changing these
numbers to say '200 0 0'.\

The next number is 'count', which controls the
number of copies, so if you only want one, set it
to '1'.  The remaining specifics are more advanced,
so we'll talk about them later.

The final point about basic duplicators is that
they make copies of everything in their containing
group, brushes, entities, patches etc.  So you can
for example make a row of columns with distinct
column, base and cap brushes by having these three
brushes in the group, plus a duplicator.  They
also work 'recursively', so that if a group with
a duplicator in it contains another group with
a duplicator in it, the results of the inner group
will be duplicated, so that you can make a rectangular
array of identical objects with two duplicators
and one copy of the object.  You can also but two
duplicators into one group, but then each does
their thing independently, rather than one applying
to the output of the other.

With a duplicator, you can edit the original, but
not the copies.  However sometimes that's what you
want to do (perhaps to introduce some variations
into a bunch of things you've created).  You can
make the copies individually editable by RMB |
Dissociate Duplicator Images on the duplicator
(in the tree-view).  Now the duplicator is removed
from the map and replaced by the copies it has been
created, as freestanding individual pieces of map
structure.