title: Floating Point Issues
author: tiglari

In Quake-engine games, the faces of brushes are defined by three points, which can
be located anywhere on the face of the plane, as long as they don't sit on one
line (note especially: they do <strong>not</strong> have to be vertexes of the
face, although they can be).  Early Quake editors and the build-tools required
these points to have integer coordinates, but QuArK introduced floating point
coordinates, which allow precise placement of rotated brushes, and are also
necessary for its 'enhanced texture positioning' scheme, which provides more more
flexible texture-positioning than the original 'Classic Quake' system.

Unfortunately, floating-point coordinates can also introduce various problem,
especially in conjunction with build-tools that can't read them.  The way they
were involved with enhanced texture positioning is particularly problematic, since
repositioning textures involved moving the face-coordinates, and so could drag
face vertices subtly and unfixably off grid, which tends to drives people crazy,
whether or not it caused real problems.  And furthermore, build-tools that
can't read floating point coordinates are very likely to have problems with maps
written by QuArK, even if floating-point coordinate writing is suppressed (since
the truncations shift the faces around, and thereby can cause leaks).

So QuArK 6.3 has a different internal representation for texture-scales than
earlier versions (called 'tv6', since it involves a 'tv6' specific on faces
that specifies 6 numbers), so that moving textures doesn't shift the face
threepoints, and also has some tools for finding and fixing faces with
non-integral threepoints.  The finder, on the search menu, is the 'Find
Non-integral Threepoints' command, and will produce a list of faces with
non-integral coordinates.  Then the fixer, on the commands menu, 'Integralize
Selected Faces', will attempt to fix the selected faces automatically,
by forcing threepoints that are slightly off-integer to integral values,
and also coopting integral vertexes of the faces, if it can find enough.
On exit, it leaves selected the faces it has fixed, so that they can be
inspected (conveniently with 'Browse Multiple Selection' on the Selection
menu) for bad effects on texture-scales, etc.  Then you can run the finder
again to see the recalcitrant cases, and decide what to do about them by
hand.

It is quite plausible that you might want to allow certain vertexes to
be non-integral (for decorations, etc); if a group has a 'nonintegral'
specific, the finder will ignore the nonintegral faces within it.

With these tools, and the 'Don't Write Floating Point Coordinates' map
option, it will hopefully be possible to control floating point issues
adequately.


