title: Basic Use
author: tiglari

The simplest duplicator for putting copies in a row
is the 'Basic Duplicator', the first item in the
New Polyhedrons|Duplicators & Misc toolboxlist.
To see it at work, first create a new poly, then
make a group over it (by hitting the `new group'
panel button). Now, with either the group or the
cube selected, insert the Basic Duplicator.  What
you'll now see, in an XY view, is 5 blue outlines
of the original New Cube heading off at a 45 degree
angle.  These are the copies of the original brush.

To control what's happening, push the tree-view
button in the browser panel select the newly inserted
Basic Duplicator, and look at its specifics.
There's 'classname', and 'copy outside', which should have
a check to its right, we'll look into those later.
The first one that interests us now is 'offset', which will
be the triple of numbers '32 32 0'.  This is the
amount, in the X, Y and Z dimensions, whereby each
copy is displaced from the previous one.  So we
can make the copies head out in the X direction,
spaced at a greater distance, by changing these
numbers to say '200 0 0'.

The next number is 'count', which controls the
number of copies, so if you only want one, set it
to '1'.  Count is giving us the number of copies,
not including the original.

Following that is 'angle'. This rotates each copy of the duplicated object by that amount in degrees from each copy's center, or origin, point. A positive number will rotate it counter clock wise and a negative number will rotate it clockwise. This creates a circular pattern of the duplicated object. They can then be made to create a stair step pattern by moving any of the solid blue handles up or down. The smaller the number used for 'angle' the bigger the circumference of the circular pattern becomes, because the rotation of each copy's center is less, and visa versa. This can also be done with the 'red ball' handle.

The 'origin' specific, is where the duplicator is located and best controlled
by dragging it around, and 'macro', which you should leave alone until you're an expert.

The point of duplicators is to have any changes you make
in the original show up automatically in the copies, so
you should now pull the faces of the cube around a bit,
to see the shapes of the copies change.  Also, if you drag
the cube with respect to the duplicator, the positions
of the copies will change.

You also might have noticed that for each copy there is
a little blue square.  If you drag a square with the
mouse, you change the direction of the row and the spacing
of the copies along it.  Look at the 'offset' specific
while you're doing this, & you'll see that what you're doing
is visually editing the offset.  So there's a quick way to get
things into the arrangement you want.

So far we've only been making copies of single brushes.
But the Basic Duplicator (and many of the others)
makes copies of everything in the group that contains
it, including brushes, entities, and entities, except
duplicators themselves.  So if you put two different
brushes into the duplicator's group, you'll see them both
being copied.  This lets you make copies of structures as
complicated as you like.

With a duplicator, you can edit the original, and see
the changes in all the copies, but you can't make
a change to some particular individual copy.  However
sometimes that is what you
want to do (perhaps to introduce some variations
into a bunch of things you've created).  You can
make the copies individually editable by RMB |
Dissociate Duplicator Images on the duplicator
(in the tree-view).  Now the duplicator is removed
from the map and replaced by the copies it has been
creating, as freestanding individual pieces of map
structure.  Of course when you do this, you lose the
advantage of having a duplicator.  With the undo facility,
you can get the duplicator back (until you close the
editing session), but then you'll also loose any individual
changes you've made.
