title: The Linear Duplicator
author: tiglari

So finally we come to the Linear Duplicator.  This is
an enhanced version of the basic duplicator, with two
useful additional specifics:  scale and angles.  The values
of both are three numbers.

Scale is numbers for multipling the size of the object in
the X, Y and Z dimensions.  Each object is multiplied in
size relative to the last, so you can get for example a
series of pillars of increasing height by setting scale
to something like '1 1 1.3' (no quotes in the actual value
entered in).  And the angles numbers specify rotation around
the Y, X and Z angles in succession (Pitch, Roll and Yaw).
So if you want each object to be spun 15 degrees around the
Z axis, but left the same on the others, '0 0 15' will do it.

There are two more specifics, matrix and linear.  Neither
of these are likely to be useful to the average mapper, but
here's a quick explanation anyway.  Scaling and rotation are
particular kinds of 'linear transformatioms', which are
distortions of space (and or the objects in them) that can
be specified in terms of 9 numbers.  With the 'matrix' specific
you can enter the matrix of any linear transformation to
be applied to the object using its center as a 'fixed point',
while 'linear' does the same thing using the duplicator
location as the fixed point.

Finally, for what it's worth, the 'angle' specific of the
Basic Duplicator specifies a rotation around the Z axis,
with the duplicator as fixed point.  Well so much for
that, now on to something a bit more useful.

Which is suppose that you want to use scale, but you want
the copies to all be lined up the same on the bottom, but
each sticking up higher than the next?   First, the stuff to
be scaled in this way must be put in a group of its own,
then select the group in the tree-view, hit the Specifics tab,
and push the button captioned 'centering'.  A little light blue
handle should appear at the center of the group you have made.
This handle can then be dragged around, and will define the point
used as the center for linear operations on the group, including
the duplicator's scaling. So move the handle
down to the bottom of the brush, and if the scale
is 1 1 1.3, they will align on the bottom but get
successively taller.

The 'User Center' of the group is also used as the center for rotations;
Note that if the linear duplicator's group contains two
brushes, each will rotate around its own center.  If we
want both brushes to rotate as one unit, we need to put them
under their own group, which can then have its own customizable
center.

