title: Duplicators

Duplicators are 'abstract' QuArK-only mapobjects that generate ordinary
mapobjects (brushes, entities, patches) from data.  Their original use
was to make copies of things, whence the name; the data consisted of
the brushes and entities to be copied, plus some specifics on the duplicator,
such as how many to make, their offsets, etc.
When did Armin realize that they could do more than make copies?  Probably
from the start, but anyway the patch and brush-curve builders, wall extruder
and even the threepoint plane are duplicators that don't make copies,
but use data of a more abstract nature, such as the box that a curve will
be contained in.

Since the usual purpose of a duplicator is to construct some mapobjects,
its most important method is its buildimages method, which takes some
parameters and produces a list consisting of the mapobjects that will
be produced.  The parameters are 'self', and `singleimage', which is
only relevant when the duplicator is being used to make multiple copies.
It is set to None unless the method is being called to dissociate the images
of the duplicator, in which case the duplicator is called once for each copy
with singleimage set to the series number of the copy, starting with 0.
This can make coding certain kinds of things rather complicated, since
when singleimage is none, buildimages needs to loop, and when it's set to
a number, it doesn't, but the result is that when the images are dissociated,
each copy gets located in its own individual group.  The actual calling
of the buildimages method is done by the Delphi in duplicator.pas, by
methods I don't understand.

The fundamental duplicator classes and methods are defined in
quarkpy.duplicator.py, and are exploited so as to produce most of the
ordinary copying duplicators in plugins.mapdups.py.  The base class is
DuplicatorManager, with the following methods:
<UL>
<LI>buildimages: not defined to do anything useful in the base class
<LI>applylinear: this ought to specify how to operate on the duplicator's
data when the linear mapping specified by the matrix argument is applied;
specifying this is ignored for many of the shape-building duplicators (it's
complicated, nobody seems to be howling about the omission)
<LI>sourcelist: explained in the comments.  This method will normally
be called by buildimages.
<LI>siblingexluded: explained in comments
<LI>dataformname: this method is used by code elsewhere (such as
in quarkpy.mapentities.py) to figure out what form to to use to display
the duplicator's specifics on the specifics page of the multi-pages-panel.
See 'dup lin:form' in defaults.qrk for an example.
<LI>handles: returns a handle to drag the thing around with.
<UL>
Many of the shape builders (path duplicator in plugins.mapdupspath.py)
are defined as descendents of DuplicatorManager, and probably some of
the others such as the brush and patch curve-builders should have been.

Duplicators that make copies are however mostly descendents of
StandardDuplicator, which, unfortunately for people who want to learn
how the code works, gotten monstrously complicated due to the
series trigger-targeting, progressive linear mapping and other facilities
that got engineered in.

