title: .PAK files - Part II
author: Decker / Armin Rigo

<b>Question:</b><br>
I also saw a few examples of guys distributing home-made PAK#.PAK-files.

<b>Answer:</b><br>
Yes, you can do that with QuArK, too. In the main window's Games menu,
select 'Output directories', and check 'Always create .pak files'. Then
QuArK will build a .PAK file in the 'TmpQuArK' directory, and the created
.PAK file will contain the .WAV files too if you store them in the .QRK
file, in a 'Files for the game' entry (see the New Files toolbox).

Note however that your custom textures will not be stored in the .PAK
file. QuArK doesn't try to determine which textures are custom and which
ones are not. You will have to add them to the .PAK yourself, by editing
the .PAK with QuArK, for example.

The advantage of using a .PAK file is that you don't have to explain
the map users all they must do with the files in your .ZIP. Once the .QRK
file containing your map stores all necessary files, every time you press
GO (menu Games), QuArK builds a brand new .PAK file, ready to be distributed.
The file is called PAK0.PAK in the "TmpQuArK" directory under your Quake
directory.

To store files in a .QRK, follow these steps: Open the .QRK file, open
the "New Files" toolbox from the Toolboxes menu, double-click on "Files
for the game". Then come back to the .QRK and select your new "Files for
the game". There is a "new folder" button that appears in the toolbar above.
Click on it to make a new folder, and rename it (e.g. "sounds" for .WAV
files). The files you put inside this folder will be found by Quake as
if you had put them in a "sounds" directory on the disk.

Usually, custom .WAV files should be put in a sub-directory of "sounds",
e.g. "sounds/yourname/", and your map should refer to them as "yourname/filename.wav".
In this case, you need a sub-folder in the "sounds" folder, called "yourname".

To actually put files inside these folders, one possible way is to drop
them from Windows' Explorer to QuArK. QuArK will ask you if you'd like
the files to be actually copied inside the .QRK file (it will make the
.QRK file bigger, but you don't need the original files any more), or just
make links; in the latter case, the files should be put in the same directory
as the .QRK file itself, or QuArK will not find them again later. Either
way, it does not change the way QuArK writes the .PAK file. The files
are always really included inside the .PAK.
