title: Introduction to screen controls and panels
author: Armin Rigo

Screen controls are the various units of a window design with which users interact. All screen controls - - map views, tree
views, image displayers, data-entry forms, floating windows, etc. - - are distinct built-in object types, but they share common
attributes. Note that toolbars are not screen controls in QuArK 5.0.c2, so they don’t have all these attributes, but this may
change in a future version.

Controls are not positionned on screen by setting coordinates. They are put into panels, which are screen controls themselves.
Panels are dummy gray rectangles that can contains other screen controls and that know how to set their position. Usually,
panels are nested, starting from the main panel, which covers the whole window except its border, its caption, and its menu
bar. For example, in the map editor’s Classical layout, the main panel contains three controls: the two map view and a
left-aligned panel, which in turn contains other panels, and so on.

Panels are the only kind of screen controls that can contain other screen controls. Each panel knows how to align its own
controls. There are two kinds of alignments a panel can perform: " full-size sections " and " padded to a border ". Within a
panel, only subpanels can be padded to a border; other controls are always full-sized.

A panel can be divided into sections, i.e. rows and columns, like a table. By default, there is only one row and one column,
taking up the whole panel size. For each subcontrols, you choose in which section it goes, and it takes the whole size of the
section. Row and column size is given with a percentage of the total width or height. This keeps the same proportions when the
window is resized. The user can manually resize the sections.

Panels can also contain border-padded subpanels. These subpanels are aligned so that they go along the whole left, top, right
or bottom border. For left- and right-padded subpanels, you choose only the panel width, in pixels; for top- and bottom-padded
subpanels, you choose only the panel height. The user can also resize these panels. The sizes are given in pixels and don’t
change when the window is resized. Border-padded subpanels shrink the screen space allocated to sections.
