title: Quilts
author: tiglari

A basic patch has nine control points, arranged in 3 rows of 3
elements each.  Given essential limitations on what these
('quadratic bezier') patches can do, to make a full range of
shapes, you need multiple 3x3 patches.  A semi-decent approximation
to a circle for example needs at least four (although it's noticeably
squarish, and to make it rounder you'd need more).  Typically
lots of these patches will share edges, so it's natural to think
of 'quilts' of 3x3 patches, sharing edges.

The Q3A engine provides direct support for such quilts, as long
as they are rectangular.  If you think about the math you'll
see that thanks to the edge sharing, a quilt of four patches
in a square will have 5x5 = 25 different control points, and
a strip of four patches that might be arranged in a row to be
wrapped around to make a columns will be a 3x9 quilt. And
that in these quilts, control points on odd-numbered rows/columns
will lie on (basic) patch edges, and if the point is in an
odd-numbered row <strong>and</strong> column it will be a patch
corner.

In Q3Radiant documentation, quilts are called 'meshes', but there
are lots of different kinds of meshes, and these quilts, or
more precisely, quadratic quilts, have special properties,
so we'll call them quilts to distinguish them from whatever
amazing stuff might come next.

Currently you can make quilts by RMB on a patch control point,
then <act>Thicken|Add Row/Column</act>.  This has the effect of replacing
one row or column of patches with two (and so adding two additional
strips of control points).  Another way to make quilts is to dissociate
the images from one of the shapebuilders, such as column.  Playing
around with the quilts you can see the difference between the
odd and even numbered rows and colums.  The column for example has
a square of control points with the odd-numbered ones in the
middle of the sides and the evens at the corners; if this were
reversed the shape would be a rectangular rather than a rounded
column.

QuArK definitely needs more elaborate facilities for creating and
shaping quilts, hopefully these will develop over time.


